Subject:

You are required to write an essay and demonstrate your knowledge of the behavioral science and leadership theories and ability to apply it in practice.

 

Scenario:

Imagine yourself or your team as a project manager who will be leading a team of software engineers. The project will start in January, and the team members have been just employed.  Imagine yourself as a project manager who will be leading a team of software engineers. You have been assigned the responsibility to form a team of 11 people for the upcoming software project. The team will consist of 8 developers, 2 testers and 1 documentation writer. You already have 3 people available for your project in the organization: 

- Senior Programmer 1 - male, 37 years old, married, skillful, works with passion, easy in communication.

- Senior Programmer 2 - female, 32 years old, not married, very skillful and productive. 

- Test Engineer 2 - male, 24 years old, not married, not very skillful and is not able to work independently, requiring a mentor.

Tasks:

Team:
Describe how you would structure the team according to their personal characteristics (age, level of experience, etc.).
What is the profile of your team? Justify your choices according to relevant theoretical background. 
What characteristics should the rest of the employees have in order to work better with the people you already have?
Leader:
What is your profile?
How are you going to motivate your team?
 

Formatting requirements:

The length shall not exceed 4 pages. The references from the literature can be added in an appendix.
Upload a PDF file
You are strongly encouraged to use references from the literature and cite them at the end of your assignment.
 

Grading

A (excellent) - assignments demonstrate excellent knowledge of the theories and provide research and links outside of the course material. 
B (very good) - assignments demonstrate very good knowledge of the theories and provide some research and links outside of the course material.
C (good) - assignments demonstrate good knowledge of the theories, cover all requirements with reasonable quality, have one or two links outside of the course material. Also there might be some grammar/style faults 
D (satisfactory) - assignments cover all requirements, but with shortcomings. Achievement fulfills the acreage standard despite deficiencies.
E (sufficient) - assignments cover minimum criteria. 
FX (insufficient – supplementation required) – assignments do not cover minimum criteria. After feedback, supplementation and resubmission is required.
F (fail) - assignments do not cover all of the listed requirements or contain plagiarism or copyright violation.
